Documenting Catalog Sync Feature (#772)
magento/merchdocs: src/system/catalog-sync.md

---
title: Catalog Sync
---

> Magento exports catalog data into tables using indexers. This process is automatically [triggered by several events]({% link system/index-management-events.md %}), such as changes to a product's price or inventory levels. Magento then syncs that catalog data to a central storage hub for use by various SaaS services, such as [Product Recommendations]({% link marketing/product-recommendations.md %}). The **Catalog Sync** dashboard allows you to peek into the Magento to SaaS syncing process and view the current status.

Reviewer: Maybe give some more background as to why this is needed. 

Some Magento services require a Catalog Sync to be set up. This process exports product data from the Magento server to SaaS services on an ongoing basis. For example, the Product Recommendations feature need up-to-date catalog information so that it can accurately return recommendations with correct names, pricing, and availability.

> Magento exports catalog data into tables using indexers. This process is automatically [triggered by several events]({% link system/index-management-events.md %}), such as changes to a product's price or inventory levels. Magento then syncs that catalog data to a central storage hub for use by various SaaS services, such as [Product Recommendations]({% link marketing/product-recommendations.md %}). The **Catalog Sync** dashboard allows you to peek into the Magento to SaaS syncing process and view the current status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magento compiles catalog data into tables using indexers. This process is automatically [triggered by several events]({% link system/index-management-events.md %}), such as changes to a product's price or inventory levels. Magento then syncs that catalog data to an endpoint where it can then be used by various SaaS services, such as [Product Recommendations]({% link marketing/product-recommendations.md %}). The **Catalog Sync** dashboard allows you to observe and manage the Magento to SaaS syncing process.
```

With the **Catalog Sync** dashboard you can:

-  View the sync status (**In Progress**, **Success**, **Failed**)
-  View the total number of products synced, if successful

> -  Search and filter for products to view their update status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Search synced products to view their current state
```

> -  Search across all store views by name, SKU, and so on

Reviewer: you can only search one storeview at a time (you'll always be in the context of one specific storeview)

> -  View product details in JSON to help diagnose a sync discrepancy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  View syned product details in JSON to help diagnose a sync discrepancy
```

> -  Force a resync instead of waiting for the automatic sync each hour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Reinitiate the sync process
```

## Accessing the Catalog Sync dashboard

> To access the **Catalog Sync** dashboard, select **System** > _Data Transfer_ > **Catalog Sync dashboard**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the **Catalog Sync** dashboard, select **System** > _Data Transfer_ > **Catalog Sync**.
```

### Last sync

Reports a sync status of:

-  **Success** - Displays the date and time the sync was successful and the number of products updated
-  **Failure** - Displays the date and time the sync was attempted

> -  **In Progress** - Displays the date and time the sync started

Reviewer: + time/date of last successful sync

{:.bs-callout-info}
If you are not seeing products on your storefront, or if the products do not reflect recent changes you made, learn how to resolve [catalog sync issues](#resolvesync).

> 

Reviewer: Add info about scheduled runs every hour

### Products synced

> Displays the date and time of the last successful sync and the total number of products synced.

Reviewer: After the initial sync, you should expect only changed products to be synced

> Displays the date and time of the last successful sync and the total number of products synced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Displays the total number of products synced from your Magento catalog. 
```

## Resync {#resync}

If you need to initiate a resync of your catalog before the hourly scheduled sync occurs, you can force a resync.

   {:.bs-callout-info}
   Forcing a resync triggers a resync of your entire product catalog, which can increase load on hardware resources.

1. From the **Catalog Sync** dashboard, select **Settings**.

   The **Catalog Sync Settings** page appears.

1. In the **Force sync** section, click the **Force sync** button.

>    Magento syncs your catalog...more details about what actually happens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Magento syncs your catalog during the next scheduled sync window...more details about what actually happens
```

## Synced catalog products

The **Synced catalog products** table displays the following information.

---|---
Field|Description
ID | Unique identifier of the product
Name | Storefront name of the product
Last Exported | Date the product was last successfully exported from your catalog
Last Modified | Date the product was last modified in your catalog
Type | Identifies the product type, such as simple, configurable, downloadable, and so on
SKU |
Price |

> Visibility | Indicates if it's browsable via the catalog or accessible via search

Reviewer: Product's visibility setting as defined in Magento catalog

- Search synced products to view their current state
- Search store catalog by name, SKU, and so on
- View syned product details in JSON to help diagnose a sync discrepancy
- Reinitiate the sync process

## Accessing the Catalog Sync dashboard

To access the **Catalog Sync** dashboard, select **System** > _Data Transfer_ > **Catalog Sync**.

### Last sync

Reports a sync status of:

- **Success** - Displays the date and time the sync was successful and the number of products updated
- **Failure** - Displays the date and time the sync was attempted
- **In Progress** - Displays the date and time of the last successful sync

{:.bs-callout-info}
The catalog sync process automatically runs every hour. However, if you are not seeing products on your storefront, or if the products do not reflect recent changes you made, learn how to resolve [catalog sync issues](#resolvesync).

### Products synced

Displays the total number of products synced from your Magento catalog. After the initial sync, you should expect only changed products to be synced.

## Resync {#resync}

If you need to initiate a resync of your catalog before the hourly scheduled sync occurs, you can force a resync.

>    {:.bs-callout-info}

Reviewer 2: This doesn't need an indent

   Forcing a resync triggers a resync of your entire product catalog, which can increase load on hardware resources.

> 1. From the **Catalog Sync** dashboard, select **Settings**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the _Catalog Sync_ dashboard, select **Settings**.
```

>    The **Catalog Sync Settings** page appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The _Catalog Sync Settings_ page appears.
```

> 1. In the **Resync Data** section, click the **Resync** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the _Resync Data_ section, click <span class="btn">Resync</span>.
```
